Title: Nature Heals

----

Date: November 6, 2014

----

Text: Last Saturday, Kyle and I drove up into Little Cottonwood, all the way to the top of the canyon where the air was cold and the wind was strong. We had decided earlier that week to try out the trail to Cecret Lake. Kyle had read that it was a short, easy hike, and we both thought it would be good to get out on a trail together.  Whether or not this was a good decision for me, health-wise, I’m still not sure….but during that hike, I think I learned a little bit about healing.

Let’s just say, during this hike, I wasn’t feeling very well.  Not only was I feeling poorly physically, but I was also really discouraged.  I kept thinking about my summer in Yosemite, and all the trails I hiked in those few months.  I wanted so badly to feel how I felt back then- energetic and strong.  If  had attempted this trail a year ago, I would have bounded up it easily, probably chatting happily with Kyle, hopping on rocks along the way, maybe even running up the last little hill in my excitement to see the lake.  It really was an easy trail.  I wondered if I should even be trying the hike with how I had been feeling.  However, when we got to the last section where the incline increased, we passed a pair of women heading down.  One of them stopped as we went by and said “Have you seen it before, the lake?” We replied that we had not, it was our first time.  She smiled happily and said simply, “It’s worth it”.  She couldn’t have known how much I was struggling and how discouraged and doubtful I was, but her words lifted my spirits and reminded me that my determination would pay off.  If only I just kept going for a little longer, I would experience something wonderful.

So we kept going, Kyle patiently walking beside me and chatting, until we reached the top. As we rounded the corner and Cecret Lake came into view, I was overwhelmed.  I love alpine lakes.  There’s something about the pristine, untouched water, tucked in between large peaks and green trees.  I felt a sense of wholeness as I sat there and looked at the lake. I knew that I wasn’t going to feel well for a few days after this, but I quickly decided it was worth it.

Sometimes, I think you just have to get out there and do the thing that you love to do, even if it’s hard and even if it means that you have to rest for days after.  I guess what I’m saying is that healing isn’t all physical.  It’s spiritual and emotional and mental, too.  We live in a culture that tell us to stay inside when sick, which is to surround yourself with manmade things and to breath recycled air. And don’t get me wrong, sometimes you have to. I know that all too well.  But it does wonders to come into the presence of nature, into the presence of something larger than us, larger than our own weakness, and breathe the cold alpine air alongside all the other beautiful things that God himself has made and has cared for.

>“The best remedy for those who are afraid, lonely or unhappy is to go outside, somewhere where they can be quite alone with the heavens, nature and God. Because only then does one feel that all is as it should be and that God wishes to see people happy, amidst the simple beauty of nature. As longs as this exists, and it certainly always will, I know that then there will always be comfort for every sorrow, whatever the circumstances may be. And I firmly believe that nature brings solace in all troubles.” -Anne Frank, The Diary of a Young Girl

(image: cecret-lake-3.jpg)
(image: kyle.jpg)
(image: kyle-2.jpg)
(image: cecret-lake-2.jpg)
(image: kyle-3.jpg)

----