Title: A Little Bit About Surrender

----

Date: October 25, 2014

----

Text: >“The heart of man plans his way, but the Lord establishes his steps.” Proverbs 16:9

During those last few weeks of college, I spent a good portion of my time planning the future: planning our wedding, our move to Utah, and looking for jobs and apartments. I figured, get married in June, move in July, and hopefully have a job by August. I pictured the first couple months of married life as unpacking, getting settled, enjoying cooking lots of meals, exploring a new city, going on a bunch of hikes in the mountains that surround us, and meeting lots of new people. Here it is, the end of October and I’ve only just started working part-time. I haven’t gone on a single hike. And I spent the better part of the first 3 months of my marriage lying on the couch or in bed in between doctors’ appointments and hospital visits. I am unable to hike, let alone go for a run. I am unable to work fulltime. Many days, I barely have the energy to prepare a meal.

I think it goes without saying that this isn’t what I had hoped for.

In my heart, I planned my course. I had an idea of what my life would be like. But the Lord is obviously determining very different steps than what I had in mind for myself. I must choose to believe that this difficult time is taking me on a journey that God will use for His glory. I must choose to trust that I am indeed taking steps and that those steps will lead me toward having a stronger faith the Lord and his goodness. I am choosing to trust that, though I can’t see it now, this experience is making me more into the person I want to be.

What this all really comes down to is this: **surrendering**. In a world where information is literally at our fingertips, where we don’t have to go more than 10 seconds without knowing something, this isn’t easy. We love to be in the know. We love to be organized and have a plan. I recently read an issue of Real Simple that was entirely based on organization. This reflects a deeper desire to be in control of our lives: from our education and career to what we do with our extra bobby pins and empty spice jars. There are even apps for things like this! Just search “list making” and you will find hundreds of apps to help you plan and carry out your grocery run in the most efficient and knowledgeable way possible. Now, don’t get me wrong: being organized and knowledgeable, making plans, and rearranging your cupboards are not bad habits. In fact, I learned a lot from that issue of Real Simple, and felt inspired to rethink how we organize our tiny apartment, which was fun!

But what happens when we realize we aren’t in control of everything? What do we do when something happens in our life that penetrates the false belief that if just know enough and plan enough and do enough, things will go how we want? What happens when we are blindsided by grief or loss or failure?

Can we surrender?

Can we trust that God is working unseen wonders, and that one day we might understand?

Can we allow the One who knows us best and loves us most to redeem our hardship and fill it with more grace and beauty than we could ever imagine?

I don’t have some great big conclusion or a striking resolution for this.  That’s the trouble with writing about what you’re learning as you’re learning it. As with all things in life, this is a process. But I know it is possible, little by little, to transform your heart from being resistant and angry and doubtful about drastic changes in life to being excited about what God is doing and what you are learning. I have seen others who have surrendered their will to the Lord in the midst of hardship, and it is a beautiful thing.

----